[Music]
um
what's your occupation this is
my occupation
[Music]
what's your name my name is michael
thomas
and your occupation well i've been
unemployed the last 15 months
my last job was a maintenance technician
for uh an auto maker
subcontractor and why are you here
well it makes sense to be here i mean
we have corporations who are running
this country that have no problem in
exporting the manufacturing base
and it's resulted in a lot of americans
like me
they do not have pain-powered plan why
are you here um
[Music]
um
we've heard that it is either a mile or
two miles
please please make it only a mile uh
a lot of people think i'm now
handicapped because
i'm limping along because of an injury
that i sustained heroically playing
basketball this weekend
uh but i think it gives me more street
cred
in the liberal community because they
think i'm handicapped
okay uh but if this really is two miles
i'm in a lot of trouble i want to be
able to say to my kids i walked in this
protest
but there's some chance we have to take
a cab later
no well definitely on the way back i'm
not walking back
and i know a lot of people are all here
learning from each other
we have a lot of different groups we've
got you know complete anti-capitalists
we've got liberals we've got democrats
we've got
marxist we've got anarchists we've got
god knows what
a lot of us are really i'm personally
here trying to learn from a lot of other
people
and trying to also i've realized that
this is actually getting
more attention from more media people
and independent media
to actually learn about some of the
bigger issues of
um you know like the banks taking um
a lot more money and keeping it in
reserve and not putting it into the
economy
and how long have you been here before
and how long do you plan to be here how
it can be
okay all right great thanks for your
time i believe in the process
that's all i need and how long do you
plan to be at this occupation
um and how long do you plan to be here
long okay okay oh great thanks for your
time i mean
really people like to disrespect my crew
but the fact is that you know my name
and i don't know
you nine years ago occupy wall street
took over newspaper headlines in the
united states
canada and around the world very briefly
the most powerful and influential
political organization on earth
was a magazine based in vancouver
british columbia canada called ad
busters
it was this magazine ad busters that
commenced the
whirlwind of conspiracy theories
self-righteous stupidity and frankly
advocacy for eco-fascism
that occupy wall street became that
sounds like hyperbole
on my part stick with the video for just
a moment and today
ad busters is nobody and nothing
going nowhere they didn't stop trying to
instigate
this kind of
panic stricken the sky is falling
street protest social activism
rebellious disruptive activity
just four weeks ago they launched their
latest
sequel to occupy wall street it was
called the black spot collective
if you've never heard of it it's because
it was much much
much less successful than occupy wall
street
the youtube video uh proclaiming it has
only 264
views on their youtube channel and
that's four weeks
after it launched their their campaign
before that was called rebel jazz
trying to get people to play jazz
instruments uh in spontaneous improvised
sessions while marching down the street
uh and each and every one of these
causes or miniature rebellions is
accompanied with
much the same over-the-top
anguished speechifying about how
capitalism is about to collapse so on
and so forth
themes and tropes familiar from
nine years ago with the occupy wall
street movement in some ways what
adbusters has been doing
hasn't changed what's changed is the
public appreciation for it or
or interest in it which has dwindled
away uh to nothing
now if we're going to make a chart i
would say that ad busters
it was briefly the most influential
voice
for the radical left in the world and in
the ten years before that
there had never been any such similar
radical voice left but you'd say okay so
nine years ago ad busters was
so so influential and then they've
crashed down i would say someone like
michael moore
his line on the same chart for how
influential it's been pretty steady it's
gone up and down with
specific film projects coming up but
michael moore is still
a very influential voice in the world
obviously michael moore's podcast
has far more listers than the youtube
channel
for ad busters and again adbusters has a
lot of money behind them
they have a i believe a monthly magazine
i forget if it's monthly or quarterly
now to be honest but
they have a regular magazine a regular
publication and they have
uh decades of uh constituency building
you know behind them they so in that
sense
the lack of public interest in the lack
of public sympathy for their message
today is is all
the more uh significant the other major
voice i want to draw attention to here
which many of you will remember
as soon as i mentioned them but it's
worth reflecting on
how little you've thought about them in
say the last five years
was the zeitgeist movement all right
often initialized to tzm
now ad busters initiated
occupy wall street the zeitgeist
movement
and their hit film here on youtube i
just
looked this up i just checked the first
successful broadcast
of their movie um was actually on google
video
a precursor to and competitor with
youtube um
before google corporation purchased
youtube and then made it their own video
platforms there was a time when youtube
was a separate company
and then it became a creature of google
corporation but anyway it actually went
to google video and then later
uh youtube where it received millions
of views now look when i reflect on this
there were a lot of lessons i myself
could have taken
from the rise and fall of occupy wall
street or the rise and fall of the
zeitgeist movement even though i was i
was the world's
harshest critic of it at that time and
i'm still the world's
harshest critic of it now i think it's
very important to say that it's
it's not just that the zeitgeist
movement um
you know is is laughable from a
conservative
perspective it's not just that it's
laughable from say a mainstream
liberal perspective all right it's also
really point
important to point out that although
their base of support their constituency
was left-wing most of what
the zeitgeist movement presented and
garnered support for through through
occupy wall street on a massive scale
again with millions of viewers and
reaching a mass audience and being
covered in newspapers and
mainstream news tv touches on most of
what they're presenting
were actually right-wing conspiracy
theories
with a very thin veneer of left-wing
packaging
and looking back at it today looking
back at it nine years later i think for
many of you in the audience
that will be obvious and probably it
wasn't at that time
that in fact what the zeitgeist movement
was presenting the public was what we
now call eco-fascism
now you mentioned eco-fascism i can
remember
when that was just kind of used as an
insult in politics it was
it wasn't really a serious theoretical
approach there was nobody
self-identifying as an eco-fascist like
was just
you point people would point the finger
at each other and call each other
eco-fascists like you want to force
everyone to recycle their bottles and
cans that's
eco-fascism or something uh no i mean
eco-fascism today
is a very real movement i would say
especially in europe rather than uh
north america
in western europe but um the approach to
the zeitgeist movement
in presenting insane conspiracy theories
about
september 11th insane conspiracies about
the banking system
the nature of fiat currency in contrast
to the gold standard
and insane conspiracies about a
world government secret world government
globalization
etc these were all and they still today
are
very transparently and palpably
anti-semitic conspiracy theories
just with the anti-semitism i can't
really even say
concealed with a sort of ellipsis or
fill in the blank element for the
anti-semitic
part of the conspiracy theory it was
many people who who already came out of
a
anti-semitic conspiracy theory
background would recognize that and
relate to it
there's a lot of that kind of thing here
on youtube frankly where the people use
these uh
catchphrases like you know blaming the
powers that be
and then they expect you and the
audience to know what they're talking
about you know
certain shadowy forces behind the
banking system etc etc
this uh this was presenting in relation
to
things like free trade agreements like
nafta their elections the united states
and mexico
uh in relation to how the federal
reserve bank worked in terms of other
banks of europe
um this was really presenting
anti-semitic conspiracy theories
in a form that left-wingers concerned
about ecology
would be willing to relate to willing to
adopt willing to accountants willing to
willing to hear
and it was massively successful
you may say it was massively successful
despite derision from the mainstream
press
or you may say it was massively
successful because of
derision from the mainstream press
obviously there were mainstream
newspapers
that just respond to this by saying look
these are crazy conspiracy theories
about september 11th
that tended to be the the aspect that
was easiest to laugh at i
saw and still today i did some research
for this video
i saw much less interest in criticizing
the insane
spiritual theories behind the zeitgeist
movement
maybe just people feel uncomfortable
talking about this stuff but there was
also a reinterpretation of the myth of
jesus and also
this really heady you know lsd trip
hippie approach to uh spirituality in
the history of religion that's
part and parcel of it um i saw
much less sincere interest in attacking
their ecological claims
sense restricted like strictly defined
like the claims they make about farming
and agriculture that are equally insane
and can be you know disprove just as
easily as what they're saying about
economics
they're equally ignorant about
everything we can concentrate food
production and regionally all across the
world in very simple technical manners
such as vertical farms
vertical farms we put on the coast of
los angeles run with desalination
processes and nutrient extraction
processes coming from the ocean
and we can grow hundreds of tons of
organic nutrient
vegetable food enough to meet the the
actual in a protein generating food too
you know all sorts of things have been
grown as well
actually meet the nutrition high
nutritional quality of everyone in los
angeles
locally no importing now i'm not
advocating that's all we do
but i'm giving you the example so what
that means is that you could have for
example in transition and i'm just i'm
jumping ahead
is all food free in los angeles of this
nature
to everyone to meet everyone's need
period because it's in abundance
no one's going to hoard it and steal it
even in a market system because it's
going to go to waste
it's available to everyone and you would
see an enormous increase in public
health and less strife in the community
i don't want to go this angle because
it's really complicated
to include the market economy that's why
i advocate the removal of it the
wikipedia article
very nicely notes a number of scathing
criticisms
of the zeitgeist movement and of what
they were doing in connection to occupy
wall street generally
that were published in mainstream
newspapers okay
um but the zeitgeist movement
and their leader appeared on
the young turks where they were treated
with great respect and deference and
referred to as you know this guy was
referred to as the respectable leader
some kind of mainstream respectable
political movement that the left-wing
should
take seriously he appeared in the ted
talks
the so-called tedx talks where he gives
a lecture and he appears respectful
he appeared of course on innumerable uh
podcasts and youtube channels
right what i wish i had learned
back nine years ago was the importance
of youtube
was the importance of filmmaking and
today you know here i am i'm using
youtube both
positively and negatively to calibrate
this i mean
negatively in the sense that i'm looking
at the ad buster's youtube channel
and i'm going to say look you guys may
have a website and you may have a
magazine
and you may pretend you're important
leaders in politics in year 2000
but looking at your youtube channel
looking you have only 264 views
on that video and you can go back
through the you know through their
history
i can see how thin the level of interest
in what you have to say is i see how few
people are are really buying
and of course with any political
movement they may have a foundation they
may have an endowment
that maybe that people donated enough
money in the past during their period of
fame
nine years ago or before that they're
able to keep going
forever but you can't buy
you know real constituency real support
real public sympathy real interest right
like this is the one thing you you can't
buy and they have the money by the way
if you haven't seen these videos
these are very well produced slick
artistic
videos they're not like my videos on my
channel a lot of effort has gone into
making this message appealing
but i can see here on youtube again
using it kind of as a negative index or
the state of that moment i can see just
how little how little purchase that
little effect it has
you know with the audience but then
positively
so still today just going through the
list of videos
from that era from nine years ago right
i'm seeing videos on youtube with 28
million views from the protests
okay the original zeitgeist movie
uh uploaded at youtube at that time five
million views
i think it'd be very hard it's been
uploaded in so many places that so many
times
i think would be hard to know how many
tens of millions of user really has but
like i found one upload
with more than five million views you
know um
a short column in a newspaper saying
this is all
hogwash for one thing that just may
inspire people to go
click on the youtube video it may just
create positive interest maybe
intriguing to people but really already
what this shows nine years ago
is that self-directed reading
self-directed
youtube video watching self-directed
exposure to
uh social media that that was the way of
the future for politics
was that people were going to seek out
expose themselves that people were going
to decide for themselves
what was credible and what wasn't and
that the significance of old media was
diminishing down to nothing and i've got
to tell you something that wasn't that
wasn't obvious
nine years ago someone who cared
passionately about politics under
many different headings and i could see
the futility and uselessness of what was
going on
at occupy wall street like in the
physical sense of what people were doing
in those tents in that park right and
there were all these youtube videos
being uploaded
um and for the most part
they were just stupid and you're looking
at this thinking
what significance can any of this has
have and of course what i'm failing to
realize is it's the platform itself
that matters it's what's being
demonstrated to us
just here in the framing of this image
that
you know and this this movement did
briefly it legitimately did involve
millions of people
right and one of the ways it involved
them
was through the medium of the youtube
video
right now again just very briefly in
terms of content
you know people attending a march and
chanting a slogan
it's not a lot of content there right
even people who got into
clashes with the police that may have
really traumatized them that may have
really had an emotional
effect and a radicalizing effect and
politicizing go for the rest of their
lives
there will be people today who were just
volunteering with bernie sanders
within the last two years who you know
formed their political opinions and drew
their sense of purpose
from that experience with occupy wall
street nine years ago there's no doubt i
mean i'm
on a mass phenomenon what i find myself
wondering is
shouldn't somebody get out and make a
documentary
film coming up now on the on the 10-year
anniversary
of occupy wall street shouldn't somebody
go and speak to these people
and speak to their opponents and speak
to their harshest critics because their
opponents and their critics were right
and you know they were wrong they were
laughably
unbelievably mind-blowingly wrong and
yet
we can see in the example of occupy wall
street nine years ago
in many ways this this prefigured this
pressage this
predicted exactly what exploded in the
year
2020 right i mean what happened
uh peacefully in 2011
you know general i think we can say that
about occupy wall street right
then came back you know with violence in
in 2012 now
all right very briefly you know the mean
the main premise of this video is
adbusters
was a magazine based in vancouver
canada and they have tried again and
again
and again since occupy wall street
to instigate the same type of civil
disobedience phenomenon
and they have failed again and again
again down to and including
the black spot collective from just four
weeks ago all right
so at that time
a set of genuinely unrelated and
miscellaneous social concerns
overlapped people were very upset about
the war in iraq and afghanistan people
were upset about the perception of
corruption on wall street stock market
the banking system
truly truly miscellaneous disorganized
sources of
dissatisfaction i would go so far as to
say there was still dissatisfaction
even though it was many years earlier
about the corruption
of the elections that put george w bush
uh in power i would say these things
were
circulating and percolating and there
was this outpouring
of dissatisfaction with the status quo
and
ad busters themselves they both did not
attempt
to lead this or funnel this in a
particular direction and they did not
exceed
so they did not succeed so both are
important
you know their philosophy that they set
out that the
nominal leaders of the occupy wall
street movement were saying well there
should be no leaders
this this is a theme that's occurred
again and this even inspired many vegan
activist movements many
animal rights activist movements kind of
taking the wrong lessons from this
strange episode in history where they
said that no the distinctive thing about
occupy wall street
was going to be that they don't have any
hierarchy they don't have even a
program of action they don't have a
manifesto they don't have any direction
they're just going to get these people
together in a park
and have them live in tents and they're
going to have this kind of open
democratic forum
for the airing of ideas okay this is
phase one
and then phase two who are the winners
who co-opts this
who takes advantage of this it's the
zeitgeist movement
it's this unbelievably stupid
fringe ideology that mixed together
conspiracy theories about september 11th
which was 10 years earlier right but
still very much on people's minds in
some ways 10 years is a long time
some ways that you're done but
conspiracy theories about september 11
conspiracy theories about the banking
system and how the banking system works
how to solve that
and then really this whole tradition
that i would say
is properly called eco-fascism
which is you know it's not socialist
it's not
communist it's an anti-free market you
could say
syndicalist in the fascist that's the
word cynicalist approach
to they would say in their terms
taking a scientific view of how to
completely reorder the economy
from the top down so they are very
interested in
for example completely abolishing the
free market in
farming and agriculture so that you
would get a command economy
um and all they would end globalization
so people here in canada would not be
able to buy oranges
from the tropics they would not be able
to buy mangoes from southeast asia
so that los angeles california would
grow all of its own food
and then this food would be distributed
for free they have this
a lot of it um comes out of specifically
the white hindu hippie tradition
of spirituality and there are specific
um hindu gurus
who are linked to you know the zeitgeist
movement
it's the most laughable nonsense
and nine years ago nobody was laughing
right
this is being presented deadpan serious
as like an important
positive new movement within the left
within the left wing
by sources like the young turks and nine
years later
we can say the young turks really matter
and those youtube videos are still up
and still being seen today
all these youtube channels they really
matter and there is a sense in which
an article in the wall street journal
that came and went at that time or an
article in the new york times
that may have expressed reservations
about or raised an eyebrow at
this crazy conspiracy theory stuff or
this crazy uh hindu spirituality stuff
or
wanting to bring back the gold standard
and you know gee doesn't this sound more
right-wing than left-wing
those things came and went right they
were published for a day
people saw them or ignored them or moved
on
and i think what we've got going on in
the left wing right now in many ways
is uh the legacy of occupy wall street
the legacy of you know the rise and fall
of the zeitgeist movement and ad busters
and the truly hysterical anti-capitalist
you know narrative of that time i think
you can see it today
um in the support for alexandria
ocasio-cortez
aoc i think you can see it both in the
support for bernie sanders
and with what those people are moving on
to next i would say the single biggest
difference
is that now in the year 2020 communism
overt communism yes sometimes
sometimes putting on the mask and
presenting itself as socialism
but today what i see is that it's the
communists who are trying to co-opt this
and explicitly brand this as
revolutionary communism
uh what's been going on whereas back in
uh
2011. i think very broadly
um people were not comfortable claiming
um the history of the russian revolution
or the history of the chinese revolution
mao zedong like they were not they were
not comfortable
claiming figures like lenin and stalin
and mao zedong
as their intellectual uh forebearers or
antecedents they were not given
they were not comfortable saying that
that was what they were gonna imitate
instead
significantly they were basing their
claims
on really vague positive associations
with
the arab spring
whatever that means to you now and
whatever that meant nine years ago
like think about how vague that was nine
years ago to be basing an
anti-capitalist
pro-ecology radical movement in the
streets of los angeles
on the arab spring and a lot of really
vague
like spiritual claims to figures like uh
mahatma gandhi mohandas gandhi
like these kinds of these kinds of
leaders right now
okay the greatest counter-argument
to what i've said out here in this video
really only makes it more important for
somebody put the money together
and do a documentary film looking at
this occupy wall street
uh 10 years later because the greatest
counter argument is to say
it never was centralized it never was
organized in a way where we can
you know we can pin down what this what
this meant to people
right but that very malleable
porous nature of what happened nine
years ago
i think makes it all the more important
to study now
i mean you know how
is it possible that nine years ago
all of these people thought that
abolishing
you know the stock market abolishing the
whole banking system
as we know it abolishing the economy as
such
that this was the future for what the
left should advocate for
that we should revert to a form of
frankly
fascistic command economy based on these
so-called life regenerating principles
of how ecology works and
organic farming works and and and what
have you this is the most
laughable fringe ideology imaginable
um but the conditions were right
you know nine years ago for this to come
out
in the open and
i mean i've had so much to do with the
vegan movement and the animal rights
movement
in the last five years
i mean look it's very very difficult
for an outsider to appreciate for
example
the power and significance of
anti-semitism
within the mainstream modern level it's
just very difficult if you
aren't left-wing yourself or if you grew
up in a conservative household
or if you grew up muslim you may think
that anti-semitism is only a problem
on your side of the aisle like you might
think anti-semitism is a big deal within
the right-wing and conservatives or
within
islam but you just can't imagine how it
is that people
who grow up with supporting
palestinian independence as this major
lodestone of their politics and then
move on to
staying in a tent in zuccotti park and
hearing about this global conspiracy of
bankers
right and hear about this worldwide
globalization conspiracy and then
start to believe that that's connected
to israel and connected to
all right there is a path to
anti-semitism
within the far left that's been
incredibly powerful and incredibly
influential and you know i've i've met
those people face to face and and dealt
with it
i've felt it in that in that sense
um and to be honest i feel like this has
really become
more dangerous because of the extent to
which it's been
pushed underground by internet
censorship right
like i'm still able to go back and find
these outrageously stupid conspiracy
theory videos that
in some cases got hundreds of thousands
of views in some cases got many
millions of views from nine years ago
and i can engage in a critique of that
or i can expose
what's wrong with it and we all know if
you're a regular user of youtube
we all know that today that stuff would
either not be on youtube
it would be banned on youtube it would
be worried it'd be hard to find right
those discussions are no longer
happening in the open they're happening
covertly and
you know talent is scarce
i think there probably are people and
someone making a documentary we could
get out and interview those people
i think there probably are people who
participated in occupy wall street
and saw through the [ __ ] of it right
i think you know the same the
the bare fact that today ad busters only
got 264 views
on that video the fact there's so little
support in sympathy for adventures
there probably are people who 10 years
ago 11 years ago 12 years ago
were uncritically kind of waving the
flag
for ad busters and then got involved in
the zeitgeist movement or other
hippie spiritual movements like it and
got pulled into these you know radical
elements connected to ecology in the
left lane
i think there are people who woke up and
realized
this is all [ __ ] these people do not
know what they're talking about
both factually and morally this is wrong
there are some people it'd be great to
get out and interview them and get their
view of the last
10 years okay but there are also people
who believed in this profoundly had
their worldview shaped by it
and they're working within the bernie
sanders camp they are self-evidently
working within movements like extinction
rebellion the
groups preaching that the sky is falling
that climate change is coming
and that the solution to climate change
is to abolish capitalism
supposedly right it's really again the
same
eco-fascist uh impulse that is a drama
that's still going on today
[Music]
and let's face it the mainstream media
has exist now
journalism is not going to investigate
this stuff
right academia people with phds in
departments of political science
they're not going to investigate this
stuff there's no kind of
ostensibly respectable source of
information
that's going to investigate and pin down
these movements
and if you can really be honest with
yourself there is much less
critical interest there is much less
analysis and evaluation
of what's going on below the surface
on the left than there is on the right
okay every week or every month
i hear about investigative journalists
disguising themselves as neo-nazis
and going into these right-wing groups
really i hear about that all the time
i read i read that kind of thing all the
time there is
sincere concern and sincere criticism
even like kind of moderate conservative
groups
that dare to start making some peeps
that they're against illegal immigration
or they're morally opposed to mass
immigration
there's a lot of critical attention
directed towards that and
obviously i'm fundamentally a kind of
pro-democracy pro-freedom of speech
person
i think steel sharp and steel i think
the investigation and analysis it's
going to benefit everyone
like i think that i think that that
benefits the left or right the center
but great let's have analysis
for everyone all right and now you turn
to jank wieger
and the young turks and all those other
left-of-center organizations
that took the leaders of the zeitgeist
movement and put them on
and made them famous and promoted this
and
i mean unlike adbusters the zeitgeist
movement hasn't completely fizzled out
and for at least five years
it was a huge you know influential
movement right
whether you're talking about the
zeitgeist movement or marianne williams
or other
overtly cultic like supernatural
you know religious movements within the
far left
whether you're talking about the
anti-semitism the insane conspiracy
theories but the economy whatever
you will now look in vain for the young
turks
jank weaker for any evidence that
they've ever engaged in
that kind of investigation that kind of
analysis or that kind of reflection of
themselves that they
look back and said hey what was i
thinking you know
and um look
i say this as someone who at that
time nine years ago from day one of the
occupy wall street movement
saw everything wrong with it yeah like
it's not a boast
i was you know i feel lucky you know
what i mean like i feel
fortunate that i was living in a
situation and i had the educational
background i had the experience
already at that stage to just see
through
all of the lies jake wieger didn't you
know the guy who still to this day
sitting on the youngsters and there were
all these people obviously you know i
have to wonder
what if i'd been 10 years younger at
that time what if i mean
sorry i'm cursed with a very accurate
memory i remember how stupid i was at
16. i remember how stupid i was at 18.
a lot of people were taken into this a
lot of people
took the first step of thinking well
they're opposed to
corporate power they're opposed to
corporate corruption
and then they're offered this next step
and they come out and they sleep in a
tent
and they participate in this thing and
they're laid in down
with a lot of these heavy ideological
messages that i think those people today
nine years later 10 years later you know
those people went from age 18 to age
28 right i think they're still carrying
that
with them now i think this is one of the
most influential
failures in 21st century political
history
and i think that it's going unexamined i
think it is
begging for analysis and critique
not even from the perspective of
conservatives or the right wing
i think the most important critique of
all is for the left
to look at this and ask really hard
questions
about who we are and what our future
is supposed to be
all of that i totally agree with right
and i want to change that system i'm
just trying to find a way
that i can wrap my mind around it where
i think that it's to be honest
realistic food creation can exist in
much higher states than they can now and
they can be localized removing
economic consequences that we have with
the current market economy such as
globalization which is very destructive
high energy
completely wasteful exploiting labor
okay the people who are going to make
that food
they have to be incentivized to make it
they do okay so
how do you pay them how do you
incentivize them to produce more food
in a transitional system so i'm speaking
transitioning right now you would pay
them just like anyone else to be paid
you'd subsidize this one
this would be subsidized or you get
corporate influence to agree to do it
which would be hard to press
hard-pressed to do but you'd have to
change a lot of things without that well
we're talking about changing everything
here okay if people want to see these
resolutions and they won't have change
we could do it we are one big human
family so put the corporations aside you
can subsidize it okay but if you
remember
the market about the economy what is the
incentive yeah what is the incentive yes
the incentive is that your well-being is
directly related to everything that
happens so that means you are
incentivized to actually contribute
because it comes back to you i don't
want to go this angle because it's
really complicated
to include the market economy that's why
i advocate the removal of it